Concise Seven-Heap Maṇḍala Offering
from the Compendium of Sādhanas

om benza bhumi ah hung
oṃ vajrabhūmi āḥ hūṃ
shyi yongsu dakpa wangchen ser gyi sa shyi
The earth is the golden ground, completely pure, full of beauty and power.
om benza rekhé ah hung
oṃ vajrarekhe āḥ hūṃ
chi chakri khoryuk gi korwé ü su hung
The circular iron mountain wall completely surrounds it; in the centre is the letter hūṃ—
ri gyalpo rirab
Meru, the king of mountains;
shar lüpakpo
In the East is Pūrva Videha,
lho dzambuling
In the South is Jambudvīpa,
nub balangchö
In the West is Aparagodaniya,
jang draminyen
In the North is Uttarakuru,
nyima
The sun,
dawa
The moon—
lha dang mi paljor pünsum tsokpa matsangwa mepa di nyi drinchen tsawa dang gyüpar chepé palden
lama dampa nam dang yidam kyilkhor gyi lhatsok sangye changchub sempa dampa chökyong pé
sungma nöjin norlhé tsok dang chepa nam la bulwar gyi o
All this,l the bountiful wealth of gods and men, complete and flawless, I offer to the sublime,
gracious and glorious root and lineage gurus, together with the hosts of deities from
the maṇḍalas of yidams, the buddhas, bodhisattvas, and hosts of guardians who protect the
noble Dharma, as well as yakṣas and wealth deities.
tukjé drowé dönchir shyé su sol
Please accept it, with compassion, for the sake of beings.
shyé né jingyi lab tu sol
Having accepted it, please grant your blessings!
With this, make the offering.
When accumulating multiple offerings, use the following:
Extremely Concise Offering Verses
sa shyi pö chü juk shing metok tram
The ground is purified with scented water and strewn with flowers.
rirab ling shyi nyidé gyenpa di
It is adorned with Sumeru, the king of mountains, the four quarters of the universe, and the
sun and the moon;
sangye shying du mik té pulwa yi
Thinking of it as the blessed buddha-fields, I offer it.
dro kün namdak shying la chöpar shok
By virtue of this offering, may all beings here and now attain the happiness of that pure land!
With this, make the offering. In any case, at the end recite the mantra of offering the maṇḍala:
om guru sarva tathagata sapariwara ratna mandala pudza megha samudra saparana samayé hung
oṃ guru sarva tathāgata saparivāra ratna maṇḍala pūja megha samudra spharaṇa samaye hūṃ
Recite this.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2021.

Source: "maN+Dal bsdus pa tshom bu bdun pa" in mkhyen brtse'i dbang po, blo gter dbang po. sgrub
thabs kun btus. BDRC W23681. 14 vols. Kangra, H.P.: Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Literature
Publisher, Dzongsar Inst. for Advanced Studies, null. Vol. 3: 149

Version: 1.0-20211230